Now, at this time, I'd like to ask the cameras to pan this audience,
because this program is going to be posted later on JW Broadcasting.
And we want the folks at home to see what the audience should look like
just before the musical program is presented.
Now, folks at home, this is what you should look like.
Now, at many regional conventions this summer, the audience did look like that.
And then there were other conventions.
We'll pray for you.
But your brothers and sisters are to be commended for your fine cooperation.
You know, the 10-minute musical program that you are going to see,
the Prelude to the Annual Meeting,
it took an entire day just to film,
not counting all of the rehearsal time on the part of the choristers,
and then there was the editing time on top of that.
And these programs take a lot of work.
A lot goes into it, a lot of expense on the part of musicians and so on.
And so it's just appropriate that we show proper respect for what is being done.
So your brothers and sisters are to be commended.
To reach good news,
but it's time to pray that we succeed.
Excited about this annual meeting program.
And we think you will be too.
It is going to be historic.
And at the end of the program,
we'll realize that we have Jehovah to thank for all these good things.
Jehovah is the source of all spiritual food.
All that they faithful and discreet slave does is do a little bit of the cooking.
Put a little garnish on it.
But Jehovah is really the source of all these good things.
Now, one of the spiritual good things that Jehovah has provided over the years
is our midweek meeting.
And we're going to trace the history of the midweek meeting in a video.
Please enjoy.
As Jehovah's people, we enjoy ongoing theocratic education.
And our midweek meeting is a big part of that.
It's actually a combination of three smaller meetings.
The congregation Bible study, the theocratic ministry school, and the service meeting.
But was it always this way?
How did our midweek meeting actually develop?
Imagine if we could go back in time.
When Charles Russell began searching for the truth,
he saw the need to meet with others who had the same goal.
So in 1879, he organized a small Bible class.
A few years later, meetings were being held every Sunday and Wednesday.
Those came to be called prayer, praise, and testimony meetings.
Well, they were held during the week, sometime and evening then.
And they usually started out by someone opening with prayer.
And then someone presiding would make some expression of praise to God,
read a scripture, and then perhaps open it.
Others would make a comment on that scripture.
And then a brother would offer prayer.
But when the prayer was offered, everyone would get up from their chairs and kneel in front of them.
And for a child, some of the prayers seemed long.
And then once that was done, the cycle went round again.
After several volumes of the book Millennial Dawn had been published,
the Bible students began using this as a basis for study.
By 1895, these meetings came to be known as Dawn Circles,
and were held in private homes.
Later, these meetings were called Berean Circles for Bible Study.
It was a question and answer consideration of the printed material,
and everyone was invited to participate.
This meeting would become the four runner of the congregation book study.
Therefore, advertise, advertise, advertise the king and his kingdom.
Following the landmark convention of Cedar Point, Ohio in 1922,
greater emphasis was placed on the field ministry.
And they said, you go down this side of the street, and we'll go down this street.
I know by myself, I've never been out before I'm alive.
My early experience in the ministry was using a testimony card.
And this is what a testimony card looks like.
And at that time, we didn't say very much.
You just handed the card over, and you said, will you please read it?
We didn't make a return. We just placed letters and kept on going.
You go to the door, and I can remember, I would say, I have a sort of Bible talk on a photograph record.
Can I play it for you?
It's something you should have told them, but really, we weren't trained at that time to talk to people.
To assist the Bible students in this effort, a newsletter began to be issued called Bulletin.
It contained service instructions and a brief testimony that could be memorized for witnessing to people.
By 1928, congregations were urged to hold service meetings each week.
And by 1935, the watchtower encouraged all congregations to base the service meeting on information published in the director.
Later called, informant, still later, King to ministry.
Then our kingdom service, now called our kingdom ministry.
This meeting soon became a regular feature of each congregation schedule offering practical guidance for the preaching work.
By the 1940s, the Second World War was raging.
Opposition was steadily growing against Jehovah's people in many parts of the world.
And while our testimony cards and phonographs helped to bring a unity to the work,
the time had now come to equip every member of the congregation to speak effectively as a teacher of God's Word.
That was the objective of a special school established in each congregation beginning in 1943.
Every week, instruction was given and students delivered talks and received constructive counsel on them.
For the brothers, they were really nervous. Some their knees were shaking. Others, I remember one brother scratched his chest.
My first talk, I was the first one in that congregation.
So I made a box and I sloped it, made it into a little podium.
But then I put a tablecloth that reached the floor so they wouldn't see my knees wobbling.
And I didn't know when I started, when I finished. Oh boy, oh boy.
I was afraid that the first four rows could hear my heart beating because it was really bumpy.
I gave a talk on Hill, getting started off with a bang.
Well, my nerves got the best of me. I started sobbing, sobbing, sobbing all the way through.
But I didn't stop. I didn't give up. My father was sitting in the front row.
He kept looking at me every time I'd look up. He was looking at me. I said, I can't quit. So I got through it.
I feel like my heart was going to leap out of my mouth.
The day of my talk, I drank a coke to calm myself down.
When the talk began, I had to suppress the belt and also my intense stage fright.
I remember I was about nine or ten years old and I had to read a portion of Leviticus.
And it was a portion where the Bible describes a death penalty for sex offenders.
I was actually too small to understand what it was all about.
But since I didn't understand it, I read it very loud and very enthusiastically.
We picked two of the most qualified brothers that we thought we had to give these student talks.
And the first brother to get up, he just got nicely started in this talk.
He just fell over in the faint. And we got him out of the way.
And the next brother, he talked and he's reached in his pocket while he was talking and took out a book of matches and lit them.
And one burnt down. He took another match out and lit that.
And after a show, we said, well, what in the world did your matches have to do with your talk?
And he didn't even believe he lit the matches. We had the show on the floor where he threw the burnt match.
So that tells you how hard it was for us.
At first, only brothers gave talks in the school. But by 1959, sisters were also invited to enroll.
I do remember vividly. I was at Yankee Stadium Convention in 1958.
And brother Nore gave that surprise announcement that sisters would be included in the academic ministry school.
So I looked forward to it with fear and trepidation, but also eager to participate, eager to learn.
And one of the things that I really loved was that when the first things they taught us in a ministry school was to smile.
Because we'd been talking about, you know, really there's a snare in a racket. You didn't really smile when you taught.
But now they show it. They urge us to smile and show our enjoyment of what we knew.
Sometimes I just start giggling during my talk. I try to continue my talk.
But I kept giggling and giggling until I couldn't speak anymore.
I was very, very nervous about it. It was to be six minutes. I got through it in three or four.
Oh, we were very happy to hear the sisters. They gave the best talks.
But for many, it took some time to get used to speaking before an audience.
Gesturing. I was making my gestures so many to under the speaker stand or on my lap. And they said, get them upward.
It seemed like when you were giving a talk, you froze.
We were taught about gestures at the Fuketic Ministry school.
And we tried to apply it like a robot, like this.
So I would speak very nicely, very gently and very softly.
And so I had to find out how I'd speak a little louder without shouting, you know.
The problem that I always seemed to have was I had too much to say in the allotted time.
And of course, the bell would ring. You would get a little red in the face and step down.
And you knew what the Theocratic Ministry school overseer was going to mention to you.
This school has helped Jehovah's people become effective teachers in the ministry.
And I had some problems with studding. And as far as facing crowds, let alone just facing a person one-on-one,
I had that kind of a difficulty. And the school helped, especially with just a reading.
By nature, I'm Tim Midshye. I find that the training received in the school and in the service meeting has helped me overcome those problems.
But as far as the ministry is concerned, it gave you more confidence.
You get to know what other people believe and you know where to go from.
And then it makes you more prayerful. So it was very practical.
We had the demonstrations of what to do, what not to do.
Training from the Theocratic Ministry school helped me witness to school teachers and students.
Almost every day, or at least regularly, they had to get up and do something for the class in school.
I found that the Theocratic Ministry school was a real help there.
That got you used to speaking before our audience and gave you confidence in yourself.
Well, the school surely helped me to make a deeper study of the Bible.
And it also helped me to concentrate and to look for better ways to convey the message to other people.
We learned to rely on Jehovah because you were up there and it was you talking and the householder listening.
But Jehovah had to help you get through it with his Holy Spirit.
Progress was obvious. With all of us, we did better and better.
And then we started getting Bible studies and teaching them what they needed.
It was amazing to see the people that have never knew anything about preaching or talking and public.
More teachers than they were before.
To me, these midweek meetings have really proven to be Jehovah's instrument
to help these people to be Jehovah's witnesses in the real sense of the word,
because the witness has to speak. And Jehovah has educated us through these two meetings.
All of our schools have a sort of a core curriculum.
They want to help us to draw closer to Jehovah, to have a more personal relationship with him,
and to be able to imitate Jesus' personality.
This Theocratic Ministry school and the service meeting
has helped these people to preach the good news of the kingdom all over the world,
but especially to fulfill the prophecy of Matthew 24, verse 14.
On January 1st, 2009, another significant change was made.
The congregation book study was renamed Congregation Bible Study
and combined with the Theocratic Ministry school and service meeting.
This adjustment was made to encourage us to use the extra evening for family worship.
As we trace back the development of our midweek meeting,
we see that good refinements were made along the way.
So, what will the next refinement be?
Well, did that last statement get your attention?
What will the next refinement be?
You're about to find out.
Brother Anthony Morris has the answer.
And you know, his part looks really interesting, our Christian life and ministry.
Let's listen.
Gather the men, the women, the little children,
in order that they may listen and learn about in fear, Jehovah.
Jehovah decreed that to his people many centuries ago,
and he continues to decree as our sovereign that we meet together.
Now, what's the primary reason that we gather together?
The authority is inspired written scriptures.
So, let's turn to Psalm 22 to answer that question.
Psalm 22 and verse 22.
I will declare your name to my brothers.
In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you.
So yes, it's to praise Jehovah to worship our Heavenly Father, Jehovah God.
Now, meetings also contribute to our unity.
They bring joy, they bring encouragement.
And many, at least in the viewing audience I have here in front of me,
well, finally, remember Brother George Ganges,
what a positive spirit Brother Ganges always displayed for any of the privilege to be around him.
And in his life story, he expresses nicely how he felt about the meetings.
To me, meeting with the brothers is one of life's greatest pleasures
and a source of encouragement.
I love to be at the kingdom home.
I feel an inward joy when talking with God's people.
When I am among them, I feel at home with my family in a spiritual paradise.
As you know, if you knew him, that was one of his favorite topics, spiritual paradise.
Also, at meetings, I feel Jehovah's spirit in a greater measure.
Beautiful appreciation for Jehovah's decree that we meet together.
And that's also where Jehovah educates his people.
We find the scripture being applied where he tells us this is the way, walk in it.
Now, Jehovah God has determined that he's going to perpetuate divine teaching.
What does that mean? That means he's going to cause it to go on forever.
Interesting question, though, how long has Jehovah been a teacher?
He's been a teacher since he was a parent.
And in prophecy, we find what's said about his favorite pupil.
So to turn your Bibles, please, excuse me, Isaiah, chapter 50.
Isaiah, chapter 50.
And it prophetically depicts Jehovah's favorite pupil.
Isaiah, chapter 50, verse 4.
The sovereign Lord, Jehovah, has given me the tongue of those taught
so that I may know how to answer the tired one with the right word.
He awakens me morning by morning.
He awakens my ear to listen like the top ones.
So Jehovah has been teaching Jesus for eons of time, his free human existence,
and then his time on the earth, teaching his favorite pupil.
And yet, it's adventurous that with all of the close association Jesus had with Jehovah,
what did he always use as an authority for his teaching?
You know, Jehovah's Word.
And what was available at the time was the 39 books of the Hebrew Scriptures.
And we can take the Sermon on the Mount as an example of how he always used as a basis the Scriptures.
21 quotations from the Hebrew Scriptures in the Sermon on the Mount.
Three from Exodus, two from Leviticus, one from Numbers, six from Deuteronomy,
one from Second Kings, four from Psalms, three from Isaiah, and one from Jeremiah.
This is the authority, even with all of his association and how he could have waxed poetic and beautiful thoughts Scripture.
Perfect example.
So he set the example for his disciples and commissioned them likewise to perpetuate, divine teaching.
How do they do is turning to Scripture as the authority?
There's an excellent example, turn your Bibles to Romans, chapter 15.
And here in the 15th chapter, we look at verse 7 here, and he's discussing the welcoming spirit and how Christ is involved with that.
He's taught what he's teaching here.
Notice verse 9, in the middle part of the verse, Paul says, just as it is written, and then he quotes Scripture.
And then in the cross reference, we can see where he's likely taking that from verse 10.
And again, he says, and he's quoting Scripture.
Verse 11, and again, praised your whole volume. He's quoting Scripture.
And then in verse 12, he quotes Isaiah regarding the root of Jesse.
So they got the message that their perfect son of God example wants Scripture as the authority for the teaching.
And then you may recall with the Paul being before a gripper.
So even when we're teaching those that are not worshipers of the true God, he stated this in Acts 26, I continue to this day bearing witness to both small and great saying nothing except what the prophets as well as Moses stated was going to take place.
All the glory back to Scripture, not to him.
So Jesus footstep followers knew to fulfill Matthew 28, 19 and 20.
They must base their teaching squarely on Jehovah's word.
And Jehovah foretold this was going to be the case.
Quite interesting in a prophecy, not too often referred to, but turned Isaiah chapter 59.
So that we see the disciples of Jesus, the anointed ones took from the mouth of Jesus and they've passed it on to the great crowd.
And Scripture foretold the perpetuation of divine teaching and Jehovah's making a very clear nothing will ever interfere with divine teaching being perpetuated.
No matter what it may appear like nothing will interfere in verse 21 of Isaiah 59.
And it reads as for me, this is my covenant with them says Jehovah, my spirit that is on you and my words that I've placed in your mouth, they will not be removed from your mouth.
And notice now those down generations from the mouth of your children or from the mouth of your grandchildren says Jehovah from now on and forever.
So divine teaching would be perpetuated in the mouth of Christ Jesus to as anointed footstep followers and then to the great crowd.
It continues to be presented. Well, we all have an individual responsibility in this. This is going to happen, but as individuals, we've had to do our part.
So just three things to keep in mind how we do our part when it comes to receiving divine teaching.
First, read God's Word regularly and as many times as we said it, some fail to do it. And that's not to be critical. Just please get the message.
Do not just be a reader of the Bible. That's commendable. You must meditate on it.
And that's a whole another lengthy talk about meditation, simply put slow down when you're reading and get it with you.
There's things that we can do to help with that, but you have to do it. I have to do it. Don't just read it.
I read the Bible in six months. So you must not have a lot to do because that's a whole lot of meditation to get it done that quick.
If you're spending a good portion of the time, you've allotted for it. That's nothing to brag about.
You better off doing one chapter and it really penetrates them to be in some sort of challenge.
The next one is a very crucial absorb the instruction that we find in our publications.
So while videos are very important, you still and I still have to behave like a sponge.
A sponge is not going to bring anything up and soak it up unless it's put in a substance.
So we're not going to be able to absorb the instruction in our publications if we don't put ourselves in them.
So you've got to read on if blind we have other methods to help them, but you've got to take the time to absorb what's in the publications and very crucial basic, but necessary to remind us of prepare for, not just a 10, but prepare for in a 10 Christian meetings.
Now, as the opening video pointed out, and we found that very refreshing, the meetings of Jehovah's Witnesses have been refined in many ways over the years.
And I have the privilege to tell you that the governing bodies pleased to set forth another adjustment to you caught that with the end of the video and so that was well done.
Why the need for a change less than 10 years after the adjustments that went into effect in January 2009.
It's a fair question.
So here's some things to consider.
The purpose of the school and service meeting has always been to equip us to become effective preachers and teachers of God's word.
I remember times past publications such as all scriptures inspired have gotten beneficial reasoning from the scriptures.
They were available to the majority of publishers, but many other publications were not.
Older theocratic ministry school schedules helped us become familiar with the wide variety of information in these publications.
Think about this, not everything published in the reasoning book was well suited for initiating field service conversations in every land.
Now, for one, I loved the reasoning book was released there in the 80s and at the time we were serving in Rhode Island, a Catholic stronghold.
So we loved the book.
However, think about it.
What general appeal with the topic of apostolic succession?
Having lands where Catholicism doesn't hold sway.
No matter how much the man gets around, there's a lot of places could care less if he ever visited.
Bethel's one for sure.
Sorry, that was in fact.
There's something else to think about.
The correspondancy between student assignments and actual field service encounters was not always likely.
Here's a real scenario from a couple months ago.
Talk number three.
The theme.
Delilah.
The love of money can lead to betrayal.
To all your sisters like this, a sister giving this talk had to select a setting from the list appearing on page 82 of the ministry school book.
So with that theme, which setting would she choose?
Giving a house to house presentation.
Witnessing informally in a waiting room.
How about encouraging a Bible student to attend meetings?
That one seems safer.
But now she reads her assignment slip again.
And she sees that she's working on study 47 effective use of visual aids, challenging for our sisters on occasion with the talks.
In recent times, study aids such as the Watchtower Publications Index, the Research Guide, the Insight Values and the Reference Bible have become available to more publishers around the world, either in printed form or electronic form.
So this opens opportunities to broaden and deepen our joint study of the Bible.
The possibility now exists to focus the first part of our meetings on gaining deeper knowledge of the scriptures, which is in fact the basis for our teaching.
The scriptures, all divine teachings based on scriptures.
And at the same time, it's also now possible to focus student assignments on actual situations that might even arise the same week in their territory.
In addition, new technologies have made possible expanded use of video in the field and at meetings.
And how we enjoyed that facet at our recent regional conventions.
That's a promise something here. And we're in Isaiah 59, 21, perhaps just go over to chapter 60 so that you see the spirit behind what your hope is doing here.
And we're just as brothers plain mentioned, cooking this up because he's the one providing it.
Isaiah 60, just the first part, verse 17, instead of the copper, I will bring in gold.
And instead of the iron, I will bring in silver. Nothing wrong with the copper.
Nothing bad about the iron. It's just improving. That's all.
So we've witnessed good become even better. Here's some examples recent years redesign JW dot org website.
Better. Watch tower online library. Better. The ever expanding and improving JW library.
Better. JW broadcasting. How the brotherhood loves this provision.
Now, unequivocally, there's no denying that Jehovah's people and it's really very clear in these last days.
We are really fulfilling the scripture to preach the good news of the kingdom and all the inhabit the earth for a witness to all the nations and then Jehovah's bring it to the end.
And we've done well at that for many years. However, note what the head of the congregation said.
You know this, but it's something that we want you to consider in Matthew chapter 28.
Matthew chapter 28. And this is something that Jehovah's made sure we've observed.
Matthew 28. 19 and 20. It's where the resurrected Christ said go.
Therefore, and make disciples of people of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit.
Notice teaching them to observe all the things I have commanded you.
And look, I am with you all the days until the conclusion of the system of things teaching.
So it's been observed that further training is needed in teaching and Jehovah's organization to make disciples.
So what changes are in store.
Well, to combine these resources in order to address these needs.
The governing body is pleased to announce that effective the week of January 4, 2016.
Theocratic ministry school service meeting and congregation Bible study are all being replaced by a new meeting called our Christian life and ministry.
So get used to the idea that it's midweek meeting weekend meeting now.
Additionally, the publication our kingdom ministry is being replaced by our Christian life and ministry meeting workbook.
And you'll see one on the screen momentarily.
David, I wish you could see some of these faces, David.
See, these are folks that go way, way, way, way back.
So we're glad you applauded.
Even though some are like, no kingdom ministry, oh my.
It's going to be okay. You'll see it is, it is all better.
Now, in addition, you'll notice on the first page of the January 2016 life and ministry meeting workbook that there's no suggested magazine presentation for the awake.
The reason is because the governing body decided that starting in January 2016, the magazines for the public will be published by monthly, that is every two months.
Beginning in January 2016, we will offer one magazine to the public each month alternating between the watch tower and awake.
In January, we'll offer the watch tower during February, we will feature subjects in awake and so on.
Have you ever felt that a certain subject, especially appeals to people in your territory?
You'd like to continue offering the magazine months after the issue date has passed, but you hold back because the date could give the impression that the information is all.
You'll be happy to know that a date will no longer be printed on the covers.
Instead, the magazines will be identified by a number as you saw on the screen.
We're confident that these adjustments, you're going to offer life giving information in these journals with renewed enthusiasm in order to reach the hearts of a broad range of people in your territory.
Now, here to explain some of the features of this new arrangement, our two helpers to the teaching committee, brothers Ronald Kerzan and David Schaefer.
That was an announcement.
The change in the midweek meeting is huge and it's not just a modification, a few little tweaks. It's a whole new beginning.
True. So now the big question is, what can we expect from the midweek meeting?
Well, here's a quick breakdown of the three main sections.
First, we have treasures from God's word.
Next, apply yourself to the field ministry and then living as Christians.
So let's get started.
First, treasures from God's word.
This part begins with a 10 minute talk based on the weekly Bible reading, but what really makes the new meeting so special is the addition of our new workbook.
Exactly.
And look at how these illustrations match beautifully, the outline that's been provided for this talk.
These include maps, the graphics, even videos.
And introduction to the book of Ezra.
The book was written by Ezra, a priest from the family line of Aaron.
Ezra was a man of faith.
All of these provisions will help us to visualize what's going on in these Bible accounts to understand it and keep it burning brightly in our memories.
Excellent. Can't wait to watch those videos. Up next is digging for spiritual gems. I just love that title.
What can we expect in this part? Well, this is an active audience discussion based on the week's Bible reading eight minutes.
These two parts are like receiving precious gems of Gilead training one week at a time.
And then we close out this section with a Bible reading.
So there we have our treasures from God's word, but now what's the best way to share them?
This is where the next part comes in this section.
It is entitled, apply yourself to the field ministry.
And the beauty of this part is that all the source material for the student of time assignments is the literature that will be featuring that week, that month in the field ministry.
Now that makes perfect sense.
Now let me ask you, how do you feel when you have an opportunity to watch a video at the Kingdom Hall?
Personally, I love watching all the videos and I'm sure the audience does as well.
So first meeting every month will have a chance to see three videos focusing on the current literature presentations.
Excellent. Would you like to see a sneak peek? We know you would. Let's watch.
Good morning. My name is Cassie and this is my friend Laura. May I ask your name? I'm Susan. Nice to meet you, Susan.
You too.
You have a beautiful home here. I can tell that you put a lot of effort into making it look so nice.
Thank you. I enjoy working on it.
It certainly shows. I'm here today because I'd like your opinion on this thought from God's word, the Bible.
Do you think that the world would be a better place if everyone lived by this principle? Notice. We wish to conduct ourselves honestly in all things.
Yes. That's a good rule to live by.
It sure is. And notice that the Bible encourages us to be honest in all things. So honesty touches every aspect of our life.
In fact, that's the topic of this month's issue of the watch tower. Would you like to read this?
Okay.
And the next time I'm here, we can talk about whether there'll ever be a time when all people will be honest.
That sounds good.
Well, that was fantastic. We knew that you would enjoy that. It was so simple, so easy to remember.
But what can we expect for the rest of the month?
So for the rest of the meetings that month, second, third, fourth, sometimes fifth week,
we'll have student assignments centered on one of the following settings.
Initial call.
Making the return visit.
Conducting a Bible study.
I love this section because we'll be watching videos. We'll be having presentations from the students with all this great content.
What if there's an interesting point that I want to make note of and write down no problem at all?
The workbook has been designed with more space for taking personal notes.
In fact, on the front of the workbook, you even have a area where you can create your own field service presentation.
In review, section one, we have our treasure.
Section two, we're sharing that treasure with others.
And section three is equally vital because all of this knowledge would be wasted if we were not applying it.
Thus, the third section is entitled Living as Christians.
And what will this be?
So we have an opportunity to hear some talks. Watch more videos.
Question and answer discussion.
All centered on focusing on Bible principles and how they apply in our modern lives.
Love the sound of that.
So here we've given you a general overview.
Gone over the three main sections, but we haven't delved into every detail.
And there's a reason for that.
Because the governing body has approved the release of a full length sample life and ministry meeting video
to be posted on JW Broadcasting.
And it'll be available this afternoon.
You'll be able to watch the whole thing in real time and see how each of the parts flow.
I know we are all excited to watch that this afternoon.
You will also be happy to know that our Christian life and ministry meeting workbook will be provided in electronic formats on jw.org
in the watch tower online library and the jw library app.
And what about those printed editions?
Well, those will be coming through the congregations in the usual way.
And yet, you'll be happy to know that everyone in attendance here at this annual meeting will be receiving their own printed edition.
In fact, our attendance have already started handing them out.
Now, as you get your printed edition and you look at the front page, you'll notice that the sample presentations contain just a few key words.
And I like how simple those key words are. They'll help us to remember the presentations, definitely.
Yes.
And something else that you'll notice is the...
This is what I love about this.
Inside.
You know what I forgot to say?
Thanks, Dave.
What I love about this is that on the front cover is that we have those little thumbnails of the January watch tower and the January literature offer.
Now, these are so handy.
You know, when I, in the days past, when I was preparing for my field service in the morning, I'd have my kingdom ministry with the sample presentation.
I'd look for the corresponding magazine, but it wouldn't always be the one that was referred to in the kingdom ministry because the sample presentation was for the magazine of the following month.
Yeah, I know exactly what you mean.
Now, the January meeting workbook or the MWB has the presentation for the January watch tower and it's print right there in the front cover.
In addition, if you look at this meeting schedule, it gives information that pertains only to the meetings that will be held during that calendar month.
So now the January workbook would feature only the January watch tower, the January literature offer, and the January meeting schedules.
How practical is that?
Absolutely.
And then, notice the color coding on each of the aspects of the meeting. There's a method to that.
So, silver for treasures from God's word.
We've color for apply yourself to the field ministry and burgundy color for living as Christians.
And the color corresponds to the color bar at the top of other articles that will be used during that part of the meeting.
Well, that will really help us to follow along during the meeting.
So, we have our printed editions of the workbook.
We have our workbook on the JW Library app.
But let me ask you.
Did you ever feel that the JW Library app would be a little more useful if you could highlight portions of text?
That seems like a resounding yes.
And yet, that is not an easy thing to bring about.
Nevertheless, you'll be happy to know that next month, when you go to the JW Library app,
you'll be able to find the meeting workbook, scroll to the appropriate section, tap any link, and highlight the text right in the app.
Can't wait to make use of that.
What an awesome privilege it is for all of us to be part of such a progressive organization.
Totally agree.
The new meeting, the meeting workbook, the updated app, all give evidence that Jehovah is our grand instructor and that he equips us with everything we need to do his will.
Jehovah knows the power of visual teaching and the new life and ministry meeting captures that power and brings the Bible to life with beautiful illustrations and videos.
As I mentioned earlier, when we read portions of Isaiah 60, 17, Jehovah promised, instead of the copper, I will bring in gold.
The copper was good, but the good just got even better.
In these last days, we all need to keep our spiritual focus sharper than ever.
We're going to conclude this part and quote pages or paragraphs on page 230 of the Kingdom Rules book.
Very sobering comments and sounds it up nicely when we think of the monumental historic change.
Paragraph 19, how can we prepare ourselves for the earth shaking events that are to come?
The watchtower stated some years ago, survival will depend on obedience.
Why is that so?
The answer is found in a warning from Jehovah to the captive Jews living in ancient Babylon.
Jehovah foretold that Babylon would be conquered, but what were God's people to do to prepare themselves for that event?
Jehovah stated, go, my people.
Enter your inner rooms and shut your doors behind you, hide yourself for a brief moment until the wrath is passed by.
Note the verbs in this verse, go, enter, shut, hide.
All are in the imperative mood. They are commands.
The Jews who heated those commands would have stayed in their houses away from the conquering soldiers out in the streets.
Hence, their survival will depend on obeying Jehovah's instructions.
And paragraph 20 starts with the question, what is the lesson for us?
As in the case of those ancient servants of God, our survival of coming events will depend on our obedience to Jehovah's instructions.
Such instructions come to us through the congregation arrangement.
Therefore, we want to develop heartfelt obedience to the guidance we are receiving.
If we do so today, we will be more inclined to be willingly in the future and thus receive the protection of our Father Jehovah and our King Jesus.
That divine protection will allow us to witness firsthand how God's kingdom will completely remove its enemies.
What an unforgettable event that will be.
Yes, brothers, these are truly exciting times.
Jehovah's speeding up the work, each of us needs strong faith to survive the last days.
It is our prayer that our revised meeting arrangement will help each of us to carry out our Christian life in ministry all to Jehovah's praise.
Well, was that historic enough for you?
And what a wonderful advantage we will have now when we are talking to our Bible students or return visits and trying to encourage them to go to the meetings.
We used to scare the life out of them by saying, there are five meetings a week.
But now we'll say, Jehovah's witnesses have two meetings every week, one midweek meeting and then a meeting toward the weekend.
And that's going to be a little bit more comfortable for the people.
Now, one of the highlights of any annual meeting is the interview of longtime servants of Jehovah.
And a few weeks ago, brother Samuel heard sat down with a few of them, their experiences are fascinating.
You are going to enjoy this part.
I would like to introduce all of you to our interviewees.
All have been in full time service for at least 47 years and of course some much longer than that.
We are at JR Brown from Brooklyn and we have Alan Janssen and Richard Eldridge and Ray Richardson are all based in Patterson.
And finally, Herman Van Sam and Brooklyn.
First, we'll talk to brother Brown.
I show you having been in some form of full time service for over 57 years.
Now, what forms of service have you enjoyed over the years, brother Brown?
Well, a variety of different forms from traveling work after a pioneering and then special pioneer work.
And then of course, circuit work and then district work before it was done away with.
All of it has been most enjoyable.
Now, back in those days, brother Brown, the circuit overseers, they used to call them colored circuit overseers, the day is black.
But the black circuit overseers just serve black congregations, is that right?
They started in the south integrating things.
We had circuit number 30. So all throughout the south, they had a different number in system for black circuits.
And when you serve the congregation, while it was not integrated as yet, that is initially when we went there.
You could see the friends were eager to have integration just to give you an example brother.
And when I would come to the congregation to serve, and they were all black congregations, then the white friends from the other congregation, they would come to the back of the hall, open the door.
Or they would open the windows and set the speaker so outside of the hall, you could hear what was going on and answer the questions based on the discussion that you had.
So while, in fact, it was segregation, it was really a way to unite the brothers and bring them together.
Very interesting. We think back over all those years, and how many people accepted the truth, despite the fact that the world is so divided, when they're able to see the truth, they do something about it.
And you had a privilege of being very much involved in that.
But now let's move forward to your Bethler life, just what are you doing presently?
Well, presently, I'm with the Department of Public Information.
And you know, it used to be where all of the questions that would come in, I was in writing correspondence, and they would just give all those questions to writing correspondence.
Well, it got to be so much, it just was no way that the one or two brothers in writing correspondence can handle it all.
And so the petition was made to the writing department.
This needs to be set up to handle the media, because the media now was more and more aggressive, and they wanted to have more and more to say about the witness and what they believe.
And as soon as you have that out, then somebody's going to stand up and say, yes, I'm an expert on Jehovah's Witnesses. Please give me a call.
How did you come in contact with the truth, Brother Brown?
It started with my mother, who was a patient for tuberculosis, and so while she was there under treatments for the TB, as they called it.
And she started studying the truth with a sister who came by the hospital, conducted the study with her.
And so she had always said, well, when she got out of there or got home, she was going to teach her children, which would have been the three of us.
The truth has the Bible presented it. Her style was very simple. She just said every Sunday.
She called her children and set them down in front of her with the book, The Kingdom Is At Hand, and she read portions from that and explained it.
And of course, that reached my heart, and I think the heart of my brothers, because it made all want to know more about this kingdom that was going to rule over everything.
Well, thank you very much, Brother Brown, we sure appreciate getting a view of your history hearing how things went back years ago, and we're so happy you're still serving faithfully today, you and your wife.
So we thank you. Now to Brother Adjansson, I check the records and they indicate that you have been in some form a full time service for 47 years. Can you break that down for us?
Well, I spent six years pioneering in New York and New Jersey, and then six years in the circuit work in Oklahoma, Ohio, and Michigan.
And then in October of 1980, we got called into Bethel, and so we've been serving at Bethel for the last 35 years, and I've worked in the convention office mainly, and now I'm working in the local design construction.
Or LDC, I'm trying to remember what all these new letter designation stand for.
If you don't mind me asking, how old are you?
Well, let me put it this way. If we were still in circuit work, I'd be out of a job for about a month now.
You're old.
But that's fair enough. I think we can figure that one out. How did you and your family find the truth?
My paternal grandmother got the truth first. She was of the anointed, and I never met her. She got her heavenly calling before I came along.
But she brought my dad into the truth, and my dad pioneered all up and down the East Coast from New York to Georgia.
And then to Mary, he married only in the Lord. He met my mom, and he studied with her.
And then once she was in the Lord, then she joined him, pioneering. They continued pioneering from New York through Georgia, and they made their own trailers.
In those days, you had to trade for literature. They would trade soap, coupons, canned peaches, even chickens were a common contribution for the literature.
And they used to have to catch them, and then put them in the coup behind the car.
But they continued to pioneering until my brother was about five, and then they settled into Yonkers, New York, and then they brought up my brother, myself, and my sister in the truth.
It's certainly commendable that you've been able to stay in full-time service for 47 years.
What have been some challenges you faced, and how did things work out?
Well, one challenge was coming to Bethel, and as you can tell, we've adapted to it now, partly because a good friend of ours said, Bloom, we're your planet.
So, though it was a big adjustment, we enjoyed circuit work, and we now enjoy Bethel's service.
I don't understand. You say being called to Bethel was a challenge, but a person has to turn in an application, doesn't he? In order to come to Bethel?
Well, well, now wait a minute. If you wanted to stay in the circuit work, why did you turn in a Bethel application?
Well, we really didn't turn one in right away. My wife and I, what we said, was we didn't really want to apply for Bethel.
But if we were ever called, we would give it a try. We didn't think anybody was listening to the conversation.
So, we were mining our own business, serving the congregation out in Lansing, Michigan, and out of the Clear Blue Sky, where the Joel Adams called us on September 25th, 1980, and asked if we were ready for a little bit of a surprise.
We said that a department at Bethel had called us and wanted us to come in, and then he went on and said, you ready for a little more of a surprise?
He said, we would like you here by October 1st, just five days later. So, we kept our word, we came in, and we filled out Bethel applications after we arrived.
Now, do you have any other challenges that you faced over the years?
Probably the death of loved ones, parents, my brother, then my sister died, and she left two children, our nephews.
And so, that was going to be a real challenge. They were teenagers at the time. And so, we didn't know if we were going to have to leave special services, if we were going to have to take care of our fleshly family.
We were involved in a lot of prayer, but because we wanted to continue on serving also at Bethel, and then our niece came forward, and she said that the boys could live with them.
Well, they've grown up now, they're on their own, and yet we're still in Bethel service.
Thank you very much for sharing your experiences with us. And now, Brother Eldridge, as of September 1st of this year,
you have 47 years of full-time service. Where have you served?
I regular pioneered for two years in Washington State, and then came into Wallkill, where I served for just a little over 20 years, and then transferred to the Watchtower Educational Center in Patterson 24 and a half years ago.
I know you've worked with engineering and permitting of construction projects for decades. What department are you with now?
Construction design development documentation. Now, here we go again. I have to learn more letters.
I guess that is CDDD department. Tell us how it is that you became a witness so many years ago.
Well, my grandfather and parents played a part. My parents were close to an elderly company servant, and his wife, who both professed to be of the anointed a member studying by coal lamp at their home, they had no electricity.
Then in 1952, my mother decided my brother and I needed a more formal study, so she asked a couple of brothers from the congregation to come over and study with us.
I symbolized my dedication in 1956, and as I progressed in school, I was getting high marks, and counselors were encouraging me to sign up for college scholarships, which I turned down.
Explaining instead, my goal was to spend a hundred hours or more a month talking to my neighbors about the good news of the kingdom.
Well, as things progressed, I did get out of school about that time. The Vietnam conflict was ramping up, and so I took my stand for neutrality.
And first, as a conscientious objector, and later was given the exemption as a minister once I was a regular pioneer.
Well, you certainly made the right choice, the right career. And speaking of engineering and property planning, what stands out in your mind?
Experiences have to do with what I perceive to be seeing Jehovah's Holy Spirit in action. Both the Wal-Kill and Patterson have worked with the permitting process under the direction of brothers like Max Larson, George Couch, and Lawn Shilling.
In the early days, they would encourage us to get to know the government officials, invite them for tours. That worked well for Wal-Kill, and later for Patterson.
The officials were appreciative of the way the Watchtower Farms property was kept up and made it easier for them to approve our projects.
And now to see what is happening at warwick is a further evidence of Jehovah's blessing upon our arrangements.
Thank you, and we'll get another comment from you a little later on.
We would now like to get to know brother Raymond Richardson. According to the records that you have accumulated 56 years of full-time service, 15 years of pioneering and all told 41 years and Bethel service.
Where do you presently work, brother Richardson, and what does that entail?
Well, I work in the writing correspondence department for the last 37 years. And as the title of the department indicates, we work under the oversight of the writing committee.
And we answer phone calls and letters that come from witnesses and non-witnesses alike.
But the questions are really Bible questions about matters of doctrine, why are publications said what it did, employment issues, and chronology, and the list goes on and on.
Sounds like fascinating work. I take it you like books.
Yes, almost to a fault sometimes. I'll just give you an example. My wife and I have been at Bethel for a number of years.
And I reached a point where I saved $60 and promised Pat that I would take her away for a weekend to relax.
Well, as we were driving out of the city, we passed by a bookstore that I had never seen before.
At the time, I was really searching for a specific set of commentaries to help me with a project that I was working on.
Well, I went into a just look. And here was that set that I've been looking for. And it was on sale from $200 down to, you guessed it, $60.
Well, I was hooked, bought the set, and I ended up in the dog house at home for that weekend.
Well, that following Monday, Brother Carl Klein of the governing body asked me why I look so down.
So I explained to him what had happened during the weekend. And I said, I just seemed to be like somebody that just buys on impulse.
Well, Brother Klein looked at me for a while. And then he reached into a drawer in his desk and pulled out $60.
And he says, take it.
See, tell your wife that this shows that the Lord takes care of those who buy on impulse for his work.
Well, we both had a good laugh and I did it through tears of gratitude.
Well, gradually, I got out of the dog house and we used that $60 to take a weekend away.
Well, it sounds like you have a thing for books like some sisters have for shoes.
Tell us how you came to know the truth and be baptized.
Well, the witnesses were calling on my grandparents. So from time to time, because of that, I met different witnesses.
And they invited me to their meetings and to some of their social gatherings.
When I was with them, I was so impressed by the love that they showed the unity and peacefulness of different races and different backgrounds to the point that I became very curious.
Well, this led to me wanting to be like them. And they said, first, you got to read and study two books.
So I got busy. I completed the books. I got baptized and shortly after that began pioneering.
My dad became enraged when he found out that I had turned down a full scholarship to a nearby university to pioneer or, as he said, pedal your magazines on the street.
He was so upset that he wanted to throw me out of the house, but my mother begged for him, don't do it.
But it was a very hostile atmosphere that remained in the house.
So I thought it would be better for me to apply for a battle.
Well, I was accepted in 1960 and assigned to the Brooklyn Heights congregation.
Tell us, did your father ever change his attitude about the truth?
You know, when I went to Bethel, I left Watchtower and Awake magazines all over the house.
My dad thought I would be back in a year. When that didn't happen, he began to read some of those magazines.
Now, when I had my first vacation back home, I was just dreading as to what his reaction would be.
Well, I was totally surprised to find out that his attitude had changed dramatically.
It was to the point where he even helped the local brothers build a new kingdom hall.
And thankfully, we again had a loving father-son relationship.
Even though he died a year later for leukemia, he was on his way to get baptized.
He was devoted and was in total unity with me and doing Jehovah's will.
That shows us how powerful those magazines really are.
I know I like to read them and I know our brothers and sisters enjoy them too.
So after four years of Bethel, you got married, but back at that time, it was pretty much a forced reassignment to the field.
How long were you out of Bethel and did the reassignment to the field work for you?
Well, we were assigned to pioneer in a rough section of Brooklyn.
Now, that was from that vantage point, it was a challenge.
But the results were thrilling.
In five years, we saw 22 of our students change their lives and get baptized.
In the 14 years that we pioneered together, we had the privilege of seeing 52 of our students
come into the truth.
So as Dan Sidley would say, so there is life after Bethel.
We thank you, Ray.
We'll come back to you in a few minutes.
Brother Van Sound, I understand that you crested 50 years of full-time service last month.
How did you get the truth and what avenues of service have you enjoyed?
I was born in the Netherlands in a town not too far from the city of Rotterdam.
And when I was about 10 years old, my mother began to study the Bible with me.
And shortly thereafter, my father also became a witness.
And they served Jehovah very faithfully until their death.
I served as a regular and special pioneer for eight years.
And during that time, I also spent one and a half years in prison because of the neutrality issue.
Then after prison, I was invited directly into the Netherlands battle.
No bars on the window there, thankfully.
And then in 1973, I attended the class number 56 of the Giliat School.
And thereafter, I had the pleasure of serving as a missionary in Suriname, Guyana and Brazil
for 24 years.
And then in December 1997, my wife and I were invited to come to Brooklyn-Betzel,
where I have been serving in the writing department now for 18 years.
That's quite a record of theocratic activity.
Can you give us the short story of one of your experiences serving as a missionary in Suriname and Guyana?
Well, in 1980, my wife Kay and I moved to a very isolated assignment on an Amar Indian reservation
of about 2,000 people in the rainforest of Suriname and Guyana.
There were no witnesses there. There was no telephone connection.
The nearest congregation was 12 hours away by boat.
Now, about once a month, the brands would send us a little parcel with our personal mail.
And you can imagine the data that those letters arrived were a feast.
We would drop everything and savor slowly each letter.
So during the five years that we lived there in isolation, prayer, became more important in our life than ever before.
Now, when we began the preaching work there, there was little response.
And we prayed and prayed for good Bible studies.
After a while, some individuals began to study, more followed, and then before long, between the two of us, we had 25 Bible studies.
Now, after a while, we invited our Bible studies to come along with us to their first convention in the capital city.
Now, it would be a long trip by boat and by bus. So we were wondering how many will come along?
So when the time of departure came in the middle of the night, we boarded a small boat about a size of a battle shuttle bus.
Now, it was dark, so we had no idea how many were in the boat.
But when the sun came up, we were amazed to see that about 45 of our Bible students had decided to come along. The boat was chock full.
Now, at the convention, we had a joy that several of our Bible students were baptized.
I'm so happy to tell that today there are two congregations in that isolated area.
Thank you. I know you have many more exciting experiences from that time period.
Maybe we can include them in a future JW Broadcasting video.
We'll get another comment from you a little later.
Let's go back to Brother Brown.
Please describe how you feel about Jehovah's organization and being part of it.
Well, my feelings are very evident by the life that we live.
There's nothing that we enjoy more than the special full-time service.
And this is why we're glad that this decision was made while we were young.
And we have no regrets to this day.
And that Jehovah has blessed us to continue in it for 57 years now.
Thank you so much, Richard. We appreciate you getting just a little taste of your history.
And now, Brother Johnson, the same question.
How do you feel about being a part of the organization?
There's no question in my mind that Jehovah is using this organization to accomplish his will.
And to be a part of it is a privilege beyond compare.
I want to continue to remain loyal.
And when the organization says jump, I want to say, how high?
Okay. Just don't jump to a conclusion.
We want you around for many more years to come.
Now, Brother Alger, back to you.
How do you feel about being a part of this organization?
Well, recently we had a Bible reading in 2 Samuel chapter 15 that included the alien dweller, Etai,
who proved so loyal to David. David was fleeing for his life.
David offered Etai in his family the opportunity to return to Jerusalem.
Etai's declaration of unflinching loyalty rings out.
He answers, in the place where my Lord the King may come to be,
whether for death or for life, there is where your servant will come to be.
For me, that sums up my view of remaining in the Christian congregation,
maintaining loyalty and support to Jehovah, Christ Jesus, and the faithful slave.
Thank you, Richard, and right back to you.
After all of these years, how do you feel about Jehovah's organization?
Well, the organization is Jehovah's way of providing spiritual direction for the whole household of faith.
But he also does that for individuals, individuals like myself.
Psalm 32, Jehovah says, I will give you advice with my eye on you.
And Jehovah, it's like saying from Jehovah that he's watching you personally,
and he will see to it through his organization that you get the best, helpful advice on whatever the issue.
So it may come through an article in a magazine, perhaps from advice from my circuit overseer,
or even a member of the governing body.
No other organization on earth takes that type of concern for individuals.
And that's why I feel very proud to be a part of an organization that cares for each person,
a loving and warm family where everyone is cared for and appreciated.
I'm sure all of us can say men do that, Ray.
We want to thank you for your wonderful thoughts here.
Now, Brother Van Sam, tell us how you feel about Jehovah's organization.
One reason why I feel proud to be part of Jehovah's organization
is that the faithful slave reflects Jehovah's concern for those who may view themselves as insignificant.
Now, an example of Jehovah's concern that touched me is found in Genesis chapter 16,
where we read the account of the servant girl, Hager.
Now, she ran away from Sarai and then she sat down at the well in the wilderness and there she was.
All by herself, totally abundant and insignificant slave without any friends.
But then verse 7 says, Jehovah's angel found her.
Note, the angel found her.
Hager was so valuable in Jehovah's eyes that he sent an angel to search for her.
Now, think of this.
This is the first time that the expression Jehovah's angel appears in the Bible.
Yet, Jehovah sent this angel not to a king, not to a queen, but to an insignificant servant girl.
And then the angel said, Hager, he used her personal name.
In Jehovah's eyes, she was valuable.
Now, when Hager understood that comforting truth, she called out to Jehovah,
you are a god of sight.
Now, when I think of this account, it reminds me of how Jehovah's organization today shows similar concern.
For example, by going to great length in printing literature, in indigenous languages,
for people who are often viewed as insignificant.
When we hand these publications to these humble people, we tell them in effect,
Jehovah has found you.
Or when we distribute our well-prepared publications to the blind and the deaf, we tell them,
And what a joy it is to observe that hundreds of thousands of these humble people say in response,
Jehovah, you are a god of sight.
I'm truly grateful to be part of an organization that shows loyal love to those in need.
It's an organization that reflects Jehovah's qualities.
We thank all of you, brothers, for spending some time with us and sharing some personal insights about your life as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
We agree with Proverbs 15, 30, and 31.
It says, bright eyes make the heart rejoice.
A good report invigorates the bones.
The one who listens to life-giving proof is at home among the wise.
We feel invigorated by your report and at home among the wise.
Thank you very much.